every spring Samsung releases the newest
version of their s phone and also
bundled with that s phone there is the
latest version of TouchWiz well today
I'm going to give you my tips and tricks
for the galaxy s5 although it's not
perfect the galaxy s5 fingerprint
scanner is a useful tool to protect your
phone to set it up go to settings
personalisation fingerprint scanner this
allows you to swipe down to the home
button to unlock your device this also
allows you to authenticate with some
applications that support the
fingerprint scanner like PayPal and also
LastPass now you need to ensure that
your fingers press all the way down so
what I like to do is tap and hold for a
second and then slide it down now to
setup emergency settings you can do this
by going to settings system safety
assistance when you turn on send help
messages the s5 will send your location
and an SOS text message to a designated
content you can do that by pressing the
power button three times quickly this
then turns on the location and then it
also sends a picture from the rear and
front cameras to emergency contact
now you also need to go in and set up
your emergency contact as well so we can
then send out the message Samsung took
the liberty and adding 130 different
settings into the s5 it's a bit overkill
in my opinion it does take a while to
find what exactly you're looking for go
into settings and then select the search
icon in the top right corner even if you
don't know the full name of what you're
looking for it does a pretty good job in
getting you the right location so if you
want to change your ringtone if you type
in the word ring then all the settings
that has the word ring in it will come
up for you that's five iso cells 16
megapixel camera is probably one of the
best that we've ever seen in a phone
first is a selective focus mode this
gets you the depth of field as you'll
see with DSLR cameras select a button
that has the picture of two people to
use it take a picture of a person that
is less than 1.5 meters away once the
picture is taken it takes about five
seconds to process now once you are in
the image you can
go ahead and press on edit and from here
you can adjust the focus level from near
to far to pan focus to add a filter
before taking a picture head into
settings go into effects and then you
can select your filter now once you have
the filter selected a lot of the normal
shooting settings are removed so way
around this is take a picture with no
filter then click on edit and then from
there you can add your effects now if
you want to see what this camera can
really do go into the settings and press
on the video size select UHD this is 4k
recording the screen o matic 5 is not a
4k screen but if you have a TV or
monitor that's 4k you can see everything
you record it in its 4k glory the 4k
file size is a lot larger than a
standard video so really pay attention
to how much space you have left on your
phone and also it does draw much more
power as well so be mindful of your
battery before reporting you can access
the camera quickly from the lock screen
by dragging the camera from the bottom
right corner into any direction and you
can use this to quickly access your
camera to grab that precious moment my
favorite feature is the ultimate power
save mode now in terms of saving your
precious battery life there is nothing
like it head into quick settings by
going to notification bar and selecting
the quick settings icon select you power
saving mode this will give you an
estimated max battery time and also what
your phone will do I like to use it when
I'm going to the movies or I'm not going
to have access to my phone for at least
an hour your device goes to grayscale
and turns off mobile data when the
screen is off it also turns off Wi-Fi
and Bluetooth also if you want to
squeeze out even more battery out of
your phone without turning on ultimate
battery saver mode go into settings and
turn off any additional features you may
not be using like sbeam or air motion
all those things do draw a little power
and if you live in a cold place like me
then listen up you can actually use your
s5 with gloves head into settings
display and tick the box for increased
screen sensitivity
now one thing to let you know that it is
more sensitive so you may have some
phantom presses now if you use the
Samsung or her to Samsung within two
miles of you that you know this is going
every single Samsung device that has
came out in the last few years have this
annoying looping sound anytime you touch
the screen well this is how to turn it
off go into settings sound and then look
at the options uncheck touch sounds the
toolbox is a toggle that you can
activate via the quick settings once you
launch it there will be a floating white
circle on your screen you can click on
the circle to quickly access the
application and you can move it around
as well today which applications are
displayed headed to the quick settings
menu then long press on the toolbox here
is where you can select your five
applications that you want to run on
toolbox or if the toolbox is actually
activated and you're on your desktop you
can press and hold it and what happens
is it gives you a new option for remove
or for edit these were my tips and
tricks for the galaxy s5 now do me a
favor if I did not mention your tip or
trick go ahead and down below and leave
in the comments and go ahead and drop us
a like wire at it and subscribe to our
channel if you are not subscribed my
name is Kevin the tech ninja you can
find me on youtube and on google+ and
this is android authority your source
for all things Android take care guys